Title: Techniques
Template: techniques/techniques-domain-index
save_as: techniques/amitt/index.html
data: {"domain": "amitt", "technique_table": [{"tid": "T0001", "descr": "<p>Nimmo's \"4Ds of propaganda\": dismiss, distort, distract, dismay (MisinfosecWG added divide in 2019). Misinformation promotes an agenda by advancing narratives supportive of that agenda. This is most effective when the advanced narrative pre-dates the revelation of the specific misinformation content. But this is often not possible.</p>", "technique_name": "5Ds (dismiss, distort, distract, dismay, divide)"}, {"tid": "T0027", "descr": "<p>Adapting existing narratives to current operational goals is the tactical sweet-spot for an effective misinformation campaign. Leveraging existing narratives is not only more effective, it requires substantially less resourcing, as the promotion of new master narratives operates on a much larger scale, both time and scope. Fluid, dynamic &amp; often interchangeable key master narratives can be (\"The morally corrupt West\") adapted to divisive (LGBT propaganda) or to distort (individuals working as CIA operatives). For Western audiences, different but equally powerful framings are available, such as \"USA has a fraught history in race relations, especially in criminal justice areas.\"</p>", "technique_name": "Adapt existing narratives"}, {"tid": "T0030", "descr": "<p>Create other assets/dossier/cover/fake relationships and/or connections or documents, sites, bylines, attributions, to establish/augment/inflate crediblity/believability</p>", "technique_name": "Backstop personas"}, {"tid": "T0039", "descr": "<p>Credibility in a social media environment is often a function of the size of a user's network. \"Influencers\" are so-called because of their reach, typically understood as: 1) the size of their network (i.e. the number of followers, perhaps weighted by their own influence); and 2) The rate at which their comments are re-circulated (these two metrics are related). Add traditional media players at all levels of credibility and professionalism to this, and the number of potential influencial carriers available for unwitting amplification becomes substantial.</p>", "technique_name": "Bait legitimate influencers"}, {"tid": "T0005", "descr": "<p>Recon/research to identify \"the source of power that provides moral or physical strength, freedom of action, or will to act.\" Thus, the center of gravity is usually seen as the \"source of strength\". Includes demographic and network analysis of communities</p>", "technique_name": "Center of Gravity Analysis"}, {"tid": "T0050", "descr": "<p>Deploy state-coordinated social media commenters and astroturfers. Both internal/domestic and external social media influence operations, popularized by China (50cent Army manage message inside the \"Great Firewall\") but also technique used by Chinese English-language social media influence operations are seeded by state-run media, which overwhelmingly present a positive, benign, and cooperative image of China. </p>", "technique_name": "Cheerleading domestic social media ops"}, {"tid": "T0016", "descr": "<p>Create attention grabbing headlines (outrage, doubt, humor) required to drive traffic &amp; engagement. (example 2016) \u201cPope Francis shocks world, endorses Donald Trump for president.\u201d (example 2016) \"FBI director received millions from Clinton Foundation, his brother\u2019s law firm does Clinton\u2019s taxes\u201d. This is a key asset</p>", "technique_name": "Clickbait"}, {"tid": "T0004", "descr": "<p>Advance competing narratives connected to same issue ie: on one hand deny incident while at same time expresses dismiss. MH17 (example) \"Russian Foreign Ministry again claimed that \u201cabsolutely groundless accusations are put forward against the Russian side, which are aimed at discrediting Russia in the eyes of the international community\" (deny); \"The Dutch MH17 investigation is biased, anti-Russian and factually inaccurate\" (dismiss). </p>", "technique_name": "Competing Narratives"}, {"tid": "T0022", "descr": "<p>\"Conspiracy narratives appeal to the human desire for explanatory order, by invoking the participation of poweful (often sinister) actors in pursuit of their own political goals. These narratives are especially appealing when an audience is low-information, marginalized or otherwise inclined to reject the prevailing explanation. Conspiracy narratives are an important component of the \"\"firehose of falsehoods\"\" model.   </p>", "technique_name": "Conspiracy narratives"}, {"tid": "T0060", "descr": "<p>continue narrative or message amplification after the main incident work has finished</p>", "technique_name": "Continue to amplify"}, {"tid": "T0048", "descr": "<p>Intimidate, coerce, threaten critics/dissidents/journalists via trolling, doxing. Examples: Philippines, Maria Ressa and Rappler journalists targeted Duterte regime, lawsuits, trollings, banned from the presidential palace where press briefings take place; 2017 bot attack on five ProPublica Journalists.</p>", "technique_name": "Cow online opinion leaders"}, {"tid": "T0028", "descr": "<p>Misinformation promotes an agenda by advancing narratives supportive of that agenda. This is most effective when the advanced narrative pre-dates the revelation of the specific misinformation content. But this is often not possible. </p>", "technique_name": "Create competing narratives"}, {"tid": "T0009", "descr": "<p>Stories planted or promoted in computational propaganda operations often make use of experts fabricated from whole cloth, sometimes specifically for the story itself. For example, in the Jade Helm conspiracy theory promoted by SVR in 2015, a pair of experts--one of them naming himself a \u201cMilitary Intelligence Analyst / Russian Regional CME\u201d and the other a \u201cGeopolitical Strategist, Journalist &amp; Author\u201d--pushed the story heavily on LinkedIn.</p>", "technique_name": "Create fake experts"}, {"tid": "T0008", "descr": "<p>Modern computational propaganda makes use of a cadre of imposter news sites spreading globally. These sites, sometimes motivated by concerns other than propaganda--for instance, click-based revenue--often have some superficial markers of authenticity, such as naming and site-design. But many can be quickly exposed with reference to their owenership, reporting history and adverstising details. A prominent case from the 2016 era was the <em>Denver Guardian</em>, which purported to be a local newspaper in Colorado and specialized in negative stories about Hillary Clinton.</p>", "technique_name": "Create fake or imposter news sites"}, {"tid": "T0026", "descr": "<p>Create fake academic research. Example: fake social science research is often aimed at hot-button social issues such as gender, race and sexuality. Fake science research can target Climate Science debate or pseudoscience like anti-vaxx</p>", "technique_name": "Create fake research"}, {"tid": "T0007", "descr": "<p>Create key social engineering assets needed to amplify content, manipulate algorithms, fool public and/or specific incident/campaign targets. </p>", "technique_name": "Create fake Social Media Profiles / Pages / Groups"}, {"tid": "T0024", "descr": "<p>Create fake videos and/or images by manipulating existing content or generating new content (e.g. deepfakes). Examples include Pelosi video (making her appear drunk) and photoshoped shark on flooded streets of Houston TX.</p>", "technique_name": "Create fake videos and images"}, {"tid": "T0013", "descr": "<p>Create media assets to support fake organizations (e.g. think tank), people (e.g. experts) and/or serve as sites to distribute malware/launch phishing operations.</p>", "technique_name": "Create fake websites"}, {"tid": "T0014", "descr": "<p>Generate revenue through online funding campaigns. e.g. Gather data, advance credible persona via Gofundme; Patreon; or via fake website connecting via PayPal or Stripe. (Example 2016) #VaccinateUS Gofundme campaigns to pay for Targetted facebook ads (Larry Cook, targetting Washington State mothers, $1,776 to boost posts over 9 months).</p>", "technique_name": "Create funding campaigns"}, {"tid": "T0015", "descr": "<p>Many incident-based campaigns will create a hashtag to promote their fabricated event (e.g. #ColumbianChemicals to promote a fake story about a chemical spill in Louisiana). </p>", "technique_name": "Create hashtag"}, {"tid": "T0006", "descr": "<p>The promotion of beneficial master narratives is perhaps the most effective method for achieving long-term strategic narrative dominance. From a \"whole of society\" perpective the promotion of the society's core master narratives should occupy a central strategic role. From a misinformation campaign / cognitive security perpectve the tactics around master narratives center more precisely on the day-to-day promotion and reinforcement of this messaging. In other words, beneficial, high-coverage master narratives are a central strategic goal and their promotion consitutes an ongoing tactical struggle carried out at a whole-of-society level. </p>", "technique_name": "Create Master Narratives"}, {"tid": "T0010", "descr": "<p>Cultivate propagandists for a cause, the goals of which are not fully comprehended, and who are used cynically by the leaders of the cause. Independent actors use social media and specialised web sites to strategically reinforce and spread messages compatible with their own. Their networks are infiltrated and used by state media disinformation organisations to amplify the state\u2019s own disinformation strategies against target populations. Many are traffickers in conspiracy theories or hoaxes, unified by a suspicion of Western governments and mainstream media. Their narratives, which appeal to leftists hostile to globalism and military intervention and nationalists against immigration, are frequently infiltrated and shaped by state-controlled trolls and altered news items from agencies such as RT and Sputnik. Also know as \"useful idiots\" or \"unwitting agents\".</p>", "technique_name": "Cultivate ignorant agents"}, {"tid": "T0056", "descr": "<p>Output information pollution (e.g. articles on an unreported false story/event) through channels controlled by or related to the incident creator. Examples include RT/Sputnik or antivax websites seeding stories.</p>", "technique_name": "Dedicated channels disseminate information pollution"}, {"tid": "T0040", "descr": "<p>Campaigns often leverage tactical and informational asymmetries on the threat surface, as seen in the Distort and Deny strategies, and the \"firehose of misinformation\". Specifically, conspiracy theorists can be repeatedly wrong, but advocates of the truth need to be perfect. By constantly escalating demands for proof, propagandists can effectively leverage this asymmetry while also priming its future use, often with an even greater asymmetric advantage. The conspiracist is offered freer rein for a broader range of \"questions\" while the truth teller is burdened with higher and higher standards of proof.</p>", "technique_name": "Demand unsurmountable proof"}, {"tid": "T0041", "descr": "<p>Without \"smoking gun\" proof (and even with proof), incident creator can or will deny involvement. This technique also leverages the attacker advantages outlined in T0040 \"Demand unsurmountable proof\", specifically the asymmetric disadvantage for truth-tellers in a \"firehose of misinformation\" environment.</p>", "technique_name": "Deny involvement"}, {"tid": "T0023", "descr": "<p>Change, twist, or exaggerate existing facts to construct a narrative that differs from reality. Examples: images and ideas can be distorted by being placed in an improper content</p>", "technique_name": "Distort facts"}, {"tid": "T0051", "descr": "<p>Use government-paid social media commenters, astroturfers, chat bots (programmed to reply to specific key words/hashtags) influence online conversations, product reviews, web-site comment forums. (2017 example) the FCC was inundated with nearly 22 million public comments on net neutrality (many from fake accounts)</p>", "technique_name": "Fabricate social media comment"}, {"tid": "T0037", "descr": "<p>Use Facebook as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "Facebook"}, {"tid": "T0002", "descr": "<p>Organize citizens around pro-state messaging. Paid or volunteer groups coordinated to push state propaganda (examples include 2016 Diba Facebook Expedition, coordinated to overcome China\u2019s Great Firewall to flood the Facebook pages of Taiwanese politicians and news agencies with a pro-PRC message).</p>", "technique_name": "Facilitate State Propaganda"}, {"tid": "T0049", "descr": "<p>Flooding and/or mobbing social media channels feeds and/or hashtag with excessive volume of content to control/shape online conversations and/or drown out opposing points of view. Bots and/or patriotic trolls are effective tools to acheive this effect. </p>", "technique_name": "Flooding"}, {"tid": "T0019", "descr": "<p>Flood social channels; drive traffic/engagement to all assets; create aura/sense/perception of pervasiveness/consensus (for or against or both simultaneously) of an issue or topic. \"Nothing is true, but everything is possible.\" Akin to astroturfing campaign.</p>", "technique_name": "Generate information pollution"}, {"tid": "T0011", "descr": "<p>Hack or take over legimate accounts to distribute misinformation or damaging content. Examples include Syrian Electronic Army (2013) series of false tweets from a hijacked Associated Press Twitter account claiming that President Barack Obama had been injured in a series of explosions near the White House. The false report caused a temporary plunge of 143 points on the Dow Jones Industrial Average.</p>", "technique_name": "Hijack legitimate account"}, {"tid": "T0033", "descr": "<p>Use Instagram as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "Instagram"}, {"tid": "T0042", "descr": "<p>Wrap lies or altered context/facts around truths. </p>", "technique_name": "Kernel of Truth"}, {"tid": "T0025", "descr": "<p>Obtain documents (eg by theft or leak), then alter and release, possibly among factual documents/sources. </p>", "technique_name": "Leak altered documents"}, {"tid": "T0058", "descr": "<p>Make incident content visible for a long time, e.g. by exploiting platform terms of service, or placing it where it's hard to remove or unlikely to be removed.</p>", "technique_name": "Legacy web content"}, {"tid": "T0003", "descr": "<p>Use or adapt existing narrative themes, where narratives are the baseline stories of a target audience. Narratives form the bedrock of our worldviews. New information is understood through a process firmly grounded in this bedrock. If new information is not consitent with the prevailing narratives of an audience, it will be ignored. Effective campaigns will frame their misinformation in the context of these narratives. Highly effective campaigns will make extensive use of audience-appropriate archetypes and meta-narratives throughout their content creation and amplifiction practices. Examples include midwesterners are generous, Russia is under attack from outside.</p>", "technique_name": "Leverage Existing Narratives"}, {"tid": "T0034", "descr": "<p>Use LinkedIn as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "LinkedIn"}, {"tid": "T0029", "descr": "<p>Create fake online polls, or manipulate existing online polls. Examples: flooding FCC with comments; creating fake engagement metrics of Twitter/Facebook polls to manipulate perception of given issue. Data gathering tactic to target those who engage, and potentially their networks of friends/followers as well</p>", "technique_name": "Manipulate online polls"}, {"tid": "T0021", "descr": "<p>Memes are one of the most important single artefact types in all of computational propaganda. Memes in this framework denotes the narrow image-based definition. But that naming is no accident, as these items have most of the important properties of Dawkins' original conception as a self-replicating unit of culture. Memes pull together reference and commentary; image and narrative; emotion and message. Memes are a powerful tool and the heart of modern influence campaigns.</p>", "technique_name": "Memes"}, {"tid": "T0047", "descr": "<p>Use political influence or the power of state to stop critical social media comments. Government requested/driven content take downs (see Google Transperancy reports. (Example 20190 Singapore Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Bill would make it illegal to spread \"false statements of fact\" in Singapore, where that information is \"prejudicial\" to Singapore's security or \"public tranquility.\" Or India/New Delhi has cut off services to Facebook and Twitter in Kashmir 28 times in the past five years, and in 2016, access was blocked for five months -- on the grounds that these platforms were being used for anti-social and \"anti-national\" purposes.</p>", "technique_name": "Muzzle social media as a political force"}, {"tid": "T0057", "descr": "<p>Coordinate and promote real-world events across media platforms, e.g. rallies, protests, gatherings in support of incident narratives. Example: Facebook groups/pages coordinate/more divisive/polarizing groups and actvities into the public space. (Example) Mueller's report, highlights, the IRA organized political rallies in the U.S. using social media starting in 2015 and continued to coordinate rallies after the 2016 election</p>", "technique_name": "Organise remote rallies and events"}, {"tid": "T0018", "descr": "<p>Create or fund advertisements targeted at specific populations</p>", "technique_name": "Paid targeted ads"}, {"tid": "T0035", "descr": "<p>Use Pinterest as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "Pinterest"}, {"tid": "T0059", "descr": "<p>Play the long game can mean a couple of things:</p>", "technique_name": "Play the long game"}, {"tid": "T0017", "descr": "<p>Drive traffic/engagement to funding campaign sites; helps provide measurable metrics to assess conversion rates</p>", "technique_name": "Promote online funding"}, {"tid": "T0032", "descr": "<p>Use Reddit as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "Reddit"}, {"tid": "T0046", "descr": "<p>Manipulate content engagement metrics (ie: Reddit &amp; Twitter) to influence/impact news search results (e.g. Google), also elevates RT &amp; Sputnik headline into Google news alert emails. aka \"Black-hat SEO\" </p>", "technique_name": "Search Engine Optimization"}, {"tid": "T0044", "descr": "<p>Incident creators often try a wide variety of messages in the early hours surrounding an incident or event in order to give a misleading account or impression. </p>", "technique_name": "Seed distortions"}, {"tid": "T0061", "descr": "<p>Sell hats, t-shirts, flags and other branded content that's designed to be seen in the real world</p>", "technique_name": "Sell merchandising"}, {"tid": "T0052", "descr": "<p>Create content/news/opinion web-sites to cross-post stories. Tertiary sites circulate and amplify narratives. Often these sites have no masthead, bylines or attribution. </p>", "technique_name": "Tertiary sites amplify news"}, {"tid": "T0020", "descr": "<p>Iteratively test incident performance (messages, content etc), e.g. A/B test headline/content enagagement metrics; website and/or funding campaign conversion rates</p>", "technique_name": "Trial content"}, {"tid": "T0038", "descr": "<p>Use Twitter as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "Twitter"}, {"tid": "T0054", "descr": "<p>Use bots to amplify narratives above algorithm thresholds. Bots are automated/programmed profiles designed to amplify content (ie: automatically retweet or like) and give appearance it's more \"popular\" than it is. They can operate as a network, to function in a coordinated/orchestrated manner. In some cases (more so now) they are an inexpensive/disposable assets used for minimal deployment as bot detection tools improve and platforms are more responsive.(example 2019) #TrudeauMustGo </p>", "technique_name": "Twitter bots amplify"}, {"tid": "T0053", "descr": "<p>Use trolls to amplify narratives and/or manipulate narratives. Fake profiles/sockpuppets operating to support individuals/narratives from the entire political spectrum (left/right binary). Operating with increased emphasis on promoting local content and promoting real Twitter users generating their own, often divisive political content, as it's easier to amplify existing content than create new/original content. Trolls operate where ever there's a socially divisive issue (issues that can/are be politicized) e.g. BlackLivesMatter or MeToo</p>", "technique_name": "Twitter trolls amplify and manipulate"}, {"tid": "T0012", "descr": "<p>Use anonymous social media profiles. Examples include page or group administrators, masked \"whois\" website directory data, no bylines connected to news article, no masthead connect to news websites. </p>", "technique_name": "Use concealment"}, {"tid": "T0045", "descr": "<p>Use the fake experts that were set up in T0009. Pseudo-experts are disposable assets that often appear once and then disappear. Give \"credility\" to misinformation. Take advantage of credential bias</p>", "technique_name": "Use fake experts"}, {"tid": "T0055", "descr": "<p>Use a dedicated hashtag for the incident (e.g. #PhosphorusDisaster) - either create a campaign/incident specific hashtag, or take over an existing hashtag.</p>", "technique_name": "Use hashtag"}, {"tid": "T0043", "descr": "<p>Direct messaging via encypted app is an increasing method of delivery. These messages are often automated and new delivery and storage methods make them anonymous, viral, and ephemeral. This is a diffucult space to monitor, but also a difficult space to build acclaim or notoriety.</p>", "technique_name": "Use SMS/ WhatsApp/ Chat apps"}, {"tid": "T0036", "descr": "<p>Use WhatsApp as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "WhatsApp"}, {"tid": "T0031", "descr": "<p>Use YouTube as a narrative dissemination channel</p>", "technique_name": "YouTube"}], "technique_list_len": "61", "menu": {"name": "techniques", "id": "techniques", "path": "/techniques/amitt/", "children": [{"name": "Strategic Planning", "id": "TA01", "path": "/tactics/TA01", "children": [{"name": "5Ds (dismiss, distort, distract, dismay, divide)", "id": "T0001", "path": "/techniques/T0001/", "children": []}, {"name": "Competing Narratives", "id": "T0004", "path": "/techniques/T0004/", "children": []}, {"name": "Facilitate State Propaganda", "id": "T0002", "path": "/techniques/T0002/", "children": []}, {"name": "Leverage Existing Narratives", "id": "T0003", "path": "/techniques/T0003/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Objective Planning", "id": "TA02", "path": "/tactics/TA02", "children": [{"name": "Center of Gravity Analysis", "id": "T0005", "path": "/techniques/T0005/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create Master Narratives", "id": "T0006", "path": "/techniques/T0006/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Develop People", "id": "TA03", "path": "/tactics/TA03", "children": [{"name": "Create fake experts", "id": "T0009", "path": "/techniques/T0009/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create fake or imposter news sites", "id": "T0008", "path": "/techniques/T0008/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create fake Social Media Profiles / Pages / Groups", "id": "T0007", "path": "/techniques/T0007/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Develop Networks", "id": "TA04", "path": "/tactics/TA04", "children": [{"name": "Create fake websites", "id": "T0013", "path": "/techniques/T0013/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create funding campaigns", "id": "T0014", "path": "/techniques/T0014/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create hashtag", "id": "T0015", "path": "/techniques/T0015/", "children": []}, {"name": "Cultivate ignorant agents", "id": "T0010", "path": "/techniques/T0010/", "children": []}, {"name": "Hijack legitimate account", "id": "T0011", "path": "/techniques/T0011/", "children": []}, {"name": "Use concealment", "id": "T0012", "path": "/techniques/T0012/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Microtargeting", "id": "TA05", "path": "/tactics/TA05", "children": [{"name": "Clickbait", "id": "T0016", "path": "/techniques/T0016/", "children": []}, {"name": "Paid targeted ads", "id": "T0018", "path": "/techniques/T0018/", "children": []}, {"name": "Promote online funding", "id": "T0017", "path": "/techniques/T0017/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Develop Content", "id": "TA06", "path": "/tactics/TA06", "children": [{"name": "Adapt existing narratives", "id": "T0027", "path": "/techniques/T0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Conspiracy narratives", "id": "T0022", "path": "/techniques/T0022/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create competing narratives", "id": "T0028", "path": "/techniques/T0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create fake research", "id": "T0026", "path": "/techniques/T0026/", "children": []}, {"name": "Create fake videos and images", "id": "T0024", "path": "/techniques/T0024/", "children": []}, {"name": "Distort facts", "id": "T0023", "path": "/techniques/T0023/", "children": []}, {"name": "Generate information pollution", "id": "T0019", "path": "/techniques/T0019/", "children": []}, {"name": "Leak altered documents", "id": "T0025", "path": "/techniques/T0025/", "children": []}, {"name": "Memes", "id": "T0021", "path": "/techniques/T0021/", "children": []}, {"name": "Trial content", "id": "T0020", "path": "/techniques/T0020/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Channel Selection", "id": "TA07", "path": "/tactics/TA07", "children": [{"name": "Backstop personas", "id": "T0030", "path": "/techniques/T0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Facebook", "id": "T0037", "path": "/techniques/T0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Instagram", "id": "T0033", "path": "/techniques/T0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "LinkedIn", "id": "T0034", "path": "/techniques/T0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Manipulate online polls", "id": "T0029", "path": "/techniques/T0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Pinterest", "id": "T0035", "path": "/techniques/T0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Reddit", "id": "T0032", "path": "/techniques/T0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Twitter", "id": "T0038", "path": "/techniques/T0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "WhatsApp", "id": "T0036", "path": "/techniques/T0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "YouTube", "id": "T0031", "path": "/techniques/T0031/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Pump Priming", "id": "TA08", "path": "/tactics/TA08", "children": [{"name": "Bait legitimate influencers", "id": "T0039", "path": "/techniques/T0039/", "children": []}, {"name": "Demand unsurmountable proof", "id": "T0040", "path": "/techniques/T0040/", "children": []}, {"name": "Deny involvement", "id": "T0041", "path": "/techniques/T0041/", "children": []}, {"name": "Kernel of Truth", "id": "T0042", "path": "/techniques/T0042/", "children": []}, {"name": "Search Engine Optimization", "id": "T0046", "path": "/techniques/T0046/", "children": []}, {"name": "Seed distortions", "id": "T0044", "path": "/techniques/T0044/", "children": []}, {"name": "Use fake experts", "id": "T0045", "path": "/techniques/T0045/", "children": []}, {"name": "Use SMS/ WhatsApp/ Chat apps", "id": "T0043", "path": "/techniques/T0043/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Exposure", "id": "TA09", "path": "/tactics/TA09", "children": [{"name": "Cheerleading domestic social media ops", "id": "T0050", "path": "/techniques/T0050/", "children": []}, {"name": "Cow online opinion leaders", "id": "T0048", "path": "/techniques/T0048/", "children": []}, {"name": "Dedicated channels disseminate information pollution", "id": "T0056", "path": "/techniques/T0056/", "children": []}, {"name": "Fabricate social media comment", "id": "T0051", "path": "/techniques/T0051/", "children": []}, {"name": "Flooding", "id": "T0049", "path": "/techniques/T0049/", "children": []}, {"name": "Muzzle social media as a political force", "id": "T0047", "path": "/techniques/T0047/", "children": []}, {"name": "Tertiary sites amplify news", "id": "T0052", "path": "/techniques/T0052/", "children": []}, {"name": "Twitter bots amplify", "id": "T0054", "path": "/techniques/T0054/", "children": []}, {"name": "Twitter trolls amplify and manipulate", "id": "T0053", "path": "/techniques/T0053/", "children": []}, {"name": "Use hashtag", "id": "T0055", "path": "/techniques/T0055/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Go Physical", "id": "TA10", "path": "/tactics/TA10", "children": [{"name": "Organise remote rallies and events", "id": "T0057", "path": "/techniques/T0057/", "children": []}, {"name": "Sell merchandising", "id": "T0061", "path": "/techniques/T0061/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "TA11", "path": "/tactics/TA11", "children": [{"name": "Continue to amplify", "id": "T0060", "path": "/techniques/T0060/", "children": []}, {"name": "Legacy web content", "id": "T0058", "path": "/techniques/T0058/", "children": []}, {"name": "Play the long game", "id": "T0059", "path": "/techniques/T0059/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Measure Effectiveness", "id": "TA12", "path": "/tactics/TA12", "children": []}]}}