Title: Discovery-mobile
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0032/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0032", "name": "Discovery", "name_lower": "discovery", "descr": "<p>Discovery consists of techniques that allow the adversary to gain knowledge about the characteristics of the mobile device and potentially other networked systems. When adversaries gain access to a new system, they must orient themselves to what they now have control of and what benefits operating from that system give to their current objective or overall goals during the intrusion. The operating system may provide capabilities that aid in this post-compromise information-gathering phase.</p>", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": "/tactics/mobile/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0031/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Network Effects", "id": "Network Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "Remote Service Effects", "id": "Remote Service Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0039/", "children": []}]}, "domain": "mobile", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T1418", "descr": "<p>Adversaries may seek to identify all applications installed on the device. One use case for doing so is to identify the presence of endpoint security applications that may increase the adversary's risk of detection. Another use case is to identify the presence of applications that the adversary may wish to target.</p>", "technique_name": "Application Discovery"}, {"tid": "T1523", "descr": "<p>Malicious applications may attempt to detect their operating environment prior to fully executing their payloads. These checks are often used to ensure the application is not running within an analysis environment such as a sandbox used for application vetting, security research, or reverse engineering. </p>", "technique_name": "Evade Analysis Environment"}, {"tid": "T1420", "descr": "<p>On Android, command line tools or the Java file APIs can be used to enumerate file system contents. However, Linux file permissions and SELinux policies generally strongly restrict what can be accessed by apps (without taking advantage of a privilege escalation exploit). The contents of the external storage directory are generally visible, which could present concern if sensitive data is inappropriately stored there.</p>", "technique_name": "File and Directory Discovery"}, {"tid": "T1430", "descr": "<p>An adversary could use a malicious or exploited application to surreptitiously track the device's physical location through use of standard operating system APIs.</p>", "technique_name": "Location Tracking"}, {"tid": "T1423", "descr": "<p>Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of services running on remote hosts, including those that may be vulnerable to remote software exploitation. Methods to acquire this information include port scans and vulnerability scans from the mobile device. This technique may take advantage of the mobile device's access to an internal enterprise network either through local connectivity or through a Virtual Private Network (VPN).</p>", "technique_name": "Network Service Scanning"}, {"tid": "T1424", "descr": "<p>On Android versions prior to 5, applications can observe information about other processes that are running through methods in the ActivityManager class. On Android versions prior to 7, applications can obtain this information by executing the <code>ps</code> command, or by examining the <code>/proc</code> directory. Starting in Android version 7, use of the Linux kernel's <code>hidepid</code> feature prevents applications (without escalated privileges) from accessing this information .</p>", "technique_name": "Process Discovery"}, {"tid": "T1426", "descr": "<p>An adversary may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, and architecture.</p>", "technique_name": "System Information Discovery"}, {"tid": "T1422", "descr": "<p>On Android, details of onboard network interfaces are accessible to apps through the java.net.NetworkInterface class . The Android TelephonyManager class can be used to gather related information such as the IMSI, IMEI, and phone number .</p>", "technique_name": "System Network Configuration Discovery"}, {"tid": "T1421", "descr": "<p>On Android, applications can use standard APIs to gather a list of network connections to and from the device. For example, the Network Connections app available in the Google Play Store  advertises this functionality.</p>", "technique_name": "System Network Connections Discovery"}], "techniques_table_len": "9"}