Title: Impact-mobile
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0034/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0034", "name": "Impact", "name_lower": "impact", "descr": "<p>The impact tactic consists of techniques used by the adversary to execute his or her mission objectives but that do not cleanly fit into another category such as Collection. Mission objectives vary based on each adversary's goals, but examples include toll fraud, destruction of device data, or locking the user out of his or her device until a ransom is paid.</p>", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": "/tactics/mobile/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0031/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Network Effects", "id": "Network Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "Remote Service Effects", "id": "Remote Service Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0039/", "children": []}]}, "domain": "mobile", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T1453", "descr": "<p><strong>This technique has been deprecated by <a href=\"/techniques/T1417\">Input Capture</a>, <a href=\"/techniques/T1516\">Input Injection</a>, and <a href=\"/techniques/T1411\">Input Prompt</a>.</strong></p>", "technique_name": "Abuse Accessibility Features"}, {"tid": "T1510", "descr": "<p>Adversaries may abuse clipboard functionality to intercept and replace information in the Android device clipboard. Malicious applications may monitor the clipboard activity through the <code>ClipboardManager.OnPrimaryClipChangedListener</code> interface on Android to determine when the clipboard contents have changed. Listening to clipboard activity, reading the clipboard contents, and modifying the clipboard contents requires no explicit application permissions and can be performed by applications running in the background, however, this behavior has changed with the release of Android 10.</p>", "technique_name": "Clipboard Modification"}, {"tid": "T1471", "descr": "<p>An adversary may encrypt files stored on the mobile device to prevent the user from accessing them, for example with the intent of only unlocking access to the files after a ransom is paid. Without escalated privileges, the adversary is generally limited to only encrypting files in external/shared storage locations. This technique has been demonstrated on Android. We are unaware of any demonstrated use on iOS.</p>", "technique_name": "Data Encrypted for Impact"}, {"tid": "T1447", "descr": "<p>An adversary could wipe the entire device contents or delete specific files. A malicious application could obtain and abuse Android device administrator access to wipe the entire device. Access to external storage directories or escalated privileges could be used to delete individual files.</p>", "technique_name": "Delete Device Data"}, {"tid": "T1446", "descr": "<p>An adversary may seek to lock the legitimate user out of the device, for example to inhibit user interaction or to obtain a ransom payment.</p>", "technique_name": "Device Lockout"}, {"tid": "T1472", "descr": "<p>An adversary could seek to generate fraudulent advertising revenue from mobile devices, for example by triggering automatic clicks of advertising links without user involvement.</p>", "technique_name": "Generate Fraudulent Advertising Revenue"}, {"tid": "T1516", "descr": "<p>A malicious application can inject input to the user interface to mimic user interaction through the abuse of Android's accessibility APIs.</p>", "technique_name": "Input Injection"}, {"tid": "T1452", "descr": "<p>An adversary could use access to a compromised device's credentials to attempt to manipulate app store rankings or ratings by triggering application downloads or posting fake reviews of applications. This technique likely requires privileged access (a rooted or jailbroken device).</p>", "technique_name": "Manipulate App Store Rankings or Ratings"}, {"tid": "T1400", "descr": "<p>If an adversary can escalate privileges, he or she may be able to use those privileges to place malicious code in the device system partition, where it may persist after device resets and may not be easily removed by the device user.</p>", "technique_name": "Modify System Partition"}, {"tid": "T1448", "descr": "<p>A malicious app could use standard Android APIs to send SMS messages. SMS messages could potentially be sent to premium numbers that charge the device owner and generate revenue for an adversary.</p>", "technique_name": "Premium SMS Toll Fraud"}], "techniques_table_len": "10"}