Title: Credential Access-mobile
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0031/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0031", "name": "Credential Access", "name_lower": "credential access", "descr": "<p>Credential access represents techniques that can be used by adversaries to obtain access to or control over passwords, tokens, cryptographic keys, or other values that could be used by an adversary to gain unauthorized access to resources. Credential access allows the adversary to assume the identity of an account, with all of that account's permissions on the system and network, and makes it harder for defenders to detect the adversary. With sufficient access within a network, an adversary can create accounts for later use within the environment.</p>", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": "/tactics/mobile/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0031/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Network Effects", "id": "Network Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "Remote Service Effects", "id": "Remote Service Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0039/", "children": []}]}, "domain": "mobile", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T1453", "descr": "<p><strong>This technique has been deprecated by <a href=\"/techniques/T1417\">Input Capture</a>, <a href=\"/techniques/T1516\">Input Injection</a>, and <a href=\"/techniques/T1411\">Input Prompt</a>.</strong></p>", "technique_name": "Abuse Accessibility Features"}, {"tid": "T1517", "descr": "<p>A malicious application can read notifications sent by the operating system or other applications, which may contain sensitive data such as one-time authentication codes sent over SMS, email, or other mediums. A malicious application can also dismiss notifications to prevent the user from noticing that the notifications arrived and can trigger action buttons contained within notifications.</p>", "technique_name": "Access Notifications"}, {"tid": "T1413", "descr": "<p>On versions of Android prior to 4.1, an adversary may use a malicious application that holds the READ_LOGS permission to obtain private keys, passwords, other credentials, or other sensitive data stored in the device's system log. On Android 4.1 and later, an adversary would need to attempt to perform an operating system privilege escalation attack to be able to access the log.</p>", "technique_name": "Access Sensitive Data in Device Logs"}, {"tid": "T1409", "descr": "<p>Adversaries may access and collect application data resident on the device. Adversaries often target popular applications such as Facebook, WeChat, and Gmail.</p>", "technique_name": "Access Stored Application Data"}, {"tid": "T1416", "descr": "<p>A malicious app can register to receive intents meant for other applications and may then be able to receive sensitive values such as OAuth authorization codes.</p>", "technique_name": "Android Intent Hijacking"}, {"tid": "T1414", "descr": "<p>Adversaries may abuse Clipboard Manager APIs to obtain sensitive information copied to the global clipboard. For example, passwords being copy-and-pasted from a password manager app could be captured by another application installed on the device.</p>", "technique_name": "Capture Clipboard Data"}, {"tid": "T1412", "descr": "<p>A malicious application could capture sensitive data sent via SMS, including authentication credentials. SMS is frequently used to transmit codes used for multi-factor authentication.</p>", "technique_name": "Capture SMS Messages"}, {"tid": "T1405", "descr": "<p>A malicious app or other attack vector could be used to exploit vulnerabilities in code running within the Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) . The adversary could then obtain privileges held by the TEE potentially including the ability to access cryptographic keys or other sensitive data . Escalated operating system privileges may be first required in order to have the ability to attack the TEE . If not, privileges within the TEE can potentially be used to exploit the operating system .</p>", "technique_name": "Exploit TEE Vulnerability"}, {"tid": "T1417", "descr": "<p>Adversaries may capture user input to obtain credentials or other information from the user through various methods.</p>", "technique_name": "Input Capture"}, {"tid": "T1411", "descr": "<p>The operating system and installed applications often have legitimate needs to prompt the user for sensitive information such as account credentials, bank account information, or Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Adversaries may mimic this functionality to prompt users for sensitive information.</p>", "technique_name": "Input Prompt"}, {"tid": "T1410", "descr": "<p>An adversary may capture network traffic to and from the device to obtain credentials or other sensitive data, or redirect network traffic to flow through an adversary-controlled gateway to do the same.</p>", "technique_name": "Network Traffic Capture or Redirection"}, {"tid": "T1415", "descr": "<p>An iOS application may be able to maliciously claim a URL scheme, allowing it to intercept calls that are meant for a different application. This technique, for example, could be used to capture OAuth authorization codes or to phish user credentials.</p>", "technique_name": "URL Scheme Hijacking"}], "techniques_table_len": "12"}