Title: Persistence-mobile
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0028/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0028", "name": "Persistence", "name_lower": "persistence", "descr": "<p>Persistence is any access, action, or configuration change to a mobile device that gives an attacker a persistent presence on the device. Attackers often will need to maintain access to mobile devices through interruptions such as device reboots and potentially even factory data resets.</p>", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": "/tactics/mobile/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0031/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Network Effects", "id": "Network Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "Remote Service Effects", "id": "Remote Service Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0039/", "children": []}]}, "domain": "mobile", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T1401", "descr": "<p>A malicious application can request Device Administrator privileges. If the user grants the privileges, the application can take steps to make its removal more difficult.</p>", "technique_name": "Abuse Device Administrator Access to Prevent Removal"}, {"tid": "T1402", "descr": "<p>An Android application can listen for the BOOT_COMPLETED broadcast, ensuring that the app's functionality will be activated every time the device starts up without having to wait for the device user to manually start the app.</p>", "technique_name": "App Auto-Start at Device Boot"}, {"tid": "T1403", "descr": "<p>ART (the Android Runtime) compiles optimized code on the device itself to improve performance. An adversary may be able to use escalated privileges to modify the cached code in order to hide malicious behavior. Since the code is compiled on the device, it may not receive the same level of integrity checks that are provided to code running in the system partition.</p>", "technique_name": "Modify Cached Executable Code"}, {"tid": "T1398", "descr": "<p>If an adversary can escalate privileges, he or she may be able to use those privileges to place malicious code in the device kernel or other boot partition components, where the code may evade detection, may persist after device resets, and may not be removable by the device user. In some cases (e.g., the Samsung Knox warranty bit as described under Detection), the attack may be detected but could result in the device being placed in a state that no longer allows certain functionality.</p>", "technique_name": "Modify OS Kernel or Boot Partition"}, {"tid": "T1400", "descr": "<p>If an adversary can escalate privileges, he or she may be able to use those privileges to place malicious code in the device system partition, where it may persist after device resets and may not be easily removed by the device user.</p>", "technique_name": "Modify System Partition"}, {"tid": "T1399", "descr": "<p>If an adversary can escalate privileges, he or she may be able to use those privileges to place malicious code in the device's Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) or other similar isolated execution environment where the code can evade detection, may persist after device resets, and may not be removable by the device user. Running code within the TEE may provide an adversary with the ability to monitor or tamper with overall device behavior.</p>", "technique_name": "Modify Trusted Execution Environment"}], "techniques_table_len": "6"}