Title: Build Capabilities-pre
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0024/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0024", "name": "Build Capabilities", "name_lower": "build capabilities", "descr": "<p>Building capabilities consists of developing and/or acquiring the software, data and techniques used at different phases of an operation.  This is the process of identifying development requirements and implementing solutions such as malware,  delivery mechanisms, obfuscation/cryptographic protections, and call back and O&amp;M functions.</p>", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": "/tactics/pre/", "children": [{"name": "Priority Definition Planning", "id": "Priority Definition Planning", "path": "/tactics/TA0012/", "children": []}, {"name": "Priority Definition Direction", "id": "Priority Definition Direction", "path": "/tactics/TA0013/", "children": []}, {"name": "Target Selection", "id": "Target Selection", "path": "/tactics/TA0014/", "children": []}, {"name": "Technical Information Gathering", "id": "Technical Information Gathering", "path": "/tactics/TA0015/", "children": []}, {"name": "People Information Gathering", "id": "People Information Gathering", "path": "/tactics/TA0016/", "children": []}, {"name": "Organizational Information Gathering", "id": "Organizational Information Gathering", "path": "/tactics/TA0017/", "children": []}, {"name": "Technical Weakness Identification", "id": "Technical Weakness Identification", "path": "/tactics/TA0018/", "children": []}, {"name": "People Weakness Identification", "id": "People Weakness Identification", "path": "/tactics/TA0019/", "children": []}, {"name": "Organizational Weakness Identification", "id": "Organizational Weakness Identification", "path": "/tactics/TA0020/", "children": []}, {"name": "Adversary OPSEC", "id": "Adversary OPSEC", "path": "/tactics/TA0021/", "children": []}, {"name": "Establish & Maintain Infrastructure", "id": "Establish & Maintain Infrastructure", "path": "/tactics/TA0022/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persona Development", "id": "Persona Development", "path": "/tactics/TA0023/", "children": []}, {"name": "Build Capabilities", "id": "Build Capabilities", "path": "/tactics/TA0024/", "children": []}, {"name": "Test Capabilities", "id": "Test Capabilities", "path": "/tactics/TA0025/", "children": []}, {"name": "Stage Capabilities", "id": "Stage Capabilities", "path": "/tactics/TA0026/", "children": []}]}, "domain": "pre", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T1347", "descr": "<p>Delivery systems are the infrastructure used by the adversary to host malware or other tools used during exploitation. Building and configuring delivery systems may include multiple activities such as registering domain names, renting hosting space, or configuring previously exploited environments. </p>", "technique_name": "Build and configure delivery systems"}, {"tid": "T1349", "descr": "<p>An exploit takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer hardware or software. The adversary may use or modify existing exploits when those exploits are still relevant to the environment they are trying to compromise.  </p>", "technique_name": "Build or acquire exploits"}, {"tid": "T1352", "descr": "<p>Command and Control (C2 or C&amp;C) is a method by which the adversary communicates with malware. An adversary may use a variety of protocols and methods to execute C2 such as a centralized server, peer to peer, IRC, compromised web sites, or even social media. </p>", "technique_name": "C2 protocol development"}, {"tid": "T1354", "descr": "<p>There is usually a delay between when a vulnerability or exploit is discovered and when it is made public. An adversary may target the systems of those known to research vulnerabilities in order to gain that knowledge for use during a different attack. </p>", "technique_name": "Compromise 3rd party or closed-source vulnerability/exploit information"}, {"tid": "T1345", "descr": "<p>A payload is the part of the malware which performs a malicious action. The adversary may create custom payloads when none exist with the needed capability or when targeting a specific environment. </p>", "technique_name": "Create custom payloads"}, {"tid": "T1355", "descr": "<p>Use of removable media as part of the Launch phase requires an adversary to determine type, format, and content of the media and associated malware. </p>", "technique_name": "Create infected removable media"}, {"tid": "T1350", "descr": "<p>An exploit takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer hardware or software. The adversary may need to discover new exploits when existing exploits are no longer relevant to the environment they are trying to compromise. An adversary may monitor exploit provider forums to understand the state of existing, as well as newly discovered, exploits. </p>", "technique_name": "Discover new exploits and monitor exploit-provider forums"}, {"tid": "T1348", "descr": "<p>As with legitimate development efforts, different skill sets may be required for different phases of an attack. The skills needed may be located in house, can be developed, or may need to be contracted out. </p>", "technique_name": "Identify resources required to build capabilities"}, {"tid": "T1346", "descr": "<p>A payload is the part of the malware which performs a malicious action. The adversary may re-use payloads when the needed capability is already available. </p>", "technique_name": "Obtain/re-use payloads"}, {"tid": "T1353", "descr": "<p>After compromise, an adversary may utilize additional tools to facilitate their end goals. This may include tools to further explore the system, move laterally within a network, exfiltrate data, or destroy data. </p>", "technique_name": "Post compromise tool development"}, {"tid": "T1351", "descr": "<p>A remote access tool (RAT) is a piece of software that allows a remote user to control a system as if they had physical access to that system. An adversary may utilize existing RATs, modify existing RATs, or create their own RAT. </p>", "technique_name": "Remote access tool development"}], "techniques_table_len": "11"}