Title: Strategic Planning-amitt
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA01/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA01", "name": "Strategic Planning", "name_lower": "strategic planning", "descr": "<p>Defining the desired end state that is the set of required conditions that defines achievement of all objectives.</p>", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": "/tactics/amitt/", "children": [{"name": "Strategic Planning", "id": "Strategic Planning", "path": "/tactics/TA01/", "children": []}, {"name": "Objective Planning", "id": "Objective Planning", "path": "/tactics/TA02/", "children": []}, {"name": "Develop People", "id": "Develop People", "path": "/tactics/TA03/", "children": []}, {"name": "Develop Networks", "id": "Develop Networks", "path": "/tactics/TA04/", "children": []}, {"name": "Microtargeting", "id": "Microtargeting", "path": "/tactics/TA05/", "children": []}, {"name": "Develop Content", "id": "Develop Content", "path": "/tactics/TA06/", "children": []}, {"name": "Channel Selection", "id": "Channel Selection", "path": "/tactics/TA07/", "children": []}, {"name": "Pump Priming", "id": "Pump Priming", "path": "/tactics/TA08/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exposure", "id": "Exposure", "path": "/tactics/TA09/", "children": []}, {"name": "Go Physical", "id": "Go Physical", "path": "/tactics/TA10/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA11/", "children": []}, {"name": "Measure Effectiveness", "id": "Measure Effectiveness", "path": "/tactics/TA12/", "children": []}]}, "domain": "amitt", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T0001", "descr": "<p>Nimmo's \"4Ds of propaganda\": dismiss, distort, distract, dismay (MisinfosecWG added divide in 2019). Misinformation promotes an agenda by advancing narratives supportive of that agenda. This is most effective when the advanced narrative pre-dates the revelation of the specific misinformation content. But this is often not possible.</p>", "technique_name": "5Ds (dismiss, distort, distract, dismay, divide)"}, {"tid": "T0004", "descr": "<p>Advance competing narratives connected to same issue ie: on one hand deny incident while at same time expresses dismiss. MH17 (example) \"Russian Foreign Ministry again claimed that \u201cabsolutely groundless accusations are put forward against the Russian side, which are aimed at discrediting Russia in the eyes of the international community\" (deny); \"The Dutch MH17 investigation is biased, anti-Russian and factually inaccurate\" (dismiss). </p>", "technique_name": "Competing Narratives"}, {"tid": "T0002", "descr": "<p>Organize citizens around pro-state messaging. Paid or volunteer groups coordinated to push state propaganda (examples include 2016 Diba Facebook Expedition, coordinated to overcome China\u2019s Great Firewall to flood the Facebook pages of Taiwanese politicians and news agencies with a pro-PRC message).</p>", "technique_name": "Facilitate State Propaganda"}, {"tid": "T0003", "descr": "<p>Use or adapt existing narrative themes, where narratives are the baseline stories of a target audience. Narratives form the bedrock of our worldviews. New information is understood through a process firmly grounded in this bedrock. If new information is not consitent with the prevailing narratives of an audience, it will be ignored. Effective campaigns will frame their misinformation in the context of these narratives. Highly effective campaigns will make extensive use of audience-appropriate archetypes and meta-narratives throughout their content creation and amplifiction practices. Examples include midwesterners are generous, Russia is under attack from outside.</p>", "technique_name": "Leverage Existing Narratives"}], "techniques_table_len": "4"}