Title: Pump Priming-amitt
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA08/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA08", "name": "Pump Priming", "name_lower": "pump priming", "descr": "<p>Release content on a targetted small scale, prior to general release, including releasing seed narratives</p>", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": "/tactics/amitt/", "children": [{"name": "Strategic Planning", "id": "Strategic Planning", "path": "/tactics/TA01/", "children": []}, {"name": "Objective Planning", "id": "Objective Planning", "path": "/tactics/TA02/", "children": []}, {"name": "Develop People", "id": "Develop People", "path": "/tactics/TA03/", "children": []}, {"name": "Develop Networks", "id": "Develop Networks", "path": "/tactics/TA04/", "children": []}, {"name": "Microtargeting", "id": "Microtargeting", "path": "/tactics/TA05/", "children": []}, {"name": "Develop Content", "id": "Develop Content", "path": "/tactics/TA06/", "children": []}, {"name": "Channel Selection", "id": "Channel Selection", "path": "/tactics/TA07/", "children": []}, {"name": "Pump Priming", "id": "Pump Priming", "path": "/tactics/TA08/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exposure", "id": "Exposure", "path": "/tactics/TA09/", "children": []}, {"name": "Go Physical", "id": "Go Physical", "path": "/tactics/TA10/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA11/", "children": []}, {"name": "Measure Effectiveness", "id": "Measure Effectiveness", "path": "/tactics/TA12/", "children": []}]}, "domain": "amitt", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T0039", "descr": "<p>Credibility in a social media environment is often a function of the size of a user's network. \"Influencers\" are so-called because of their reach, typically understood as: 1) the size of their network (i.e. the number of followers, perhaps weighted by their own influence); and 2) The rate at which their comments are re-circulated (these two metrics are related). Add traditional media players at all levels of credibility and professionalism to this, and the number of potential influencial carriers available for unwitting amplification becomes substantial.</p>", "technique_name": "Bait legitimate influencers"}, {"tid": "T0040", "descr": "<p>Campaigns often leverage tactical and informational asymmetries on the threat surface, as seen in the Distort and Deny strategies, and the \"firehose of misinformation\". Specifically, conspiracy theorists can be repeatedly wrong, but advocates of the truth need to be perfect. By constantly escalating demands for proof, propagandists can effectively leverage this asymmetry while also priming its future use, often with an even greater asymmetric advantage. The conspiracist is offered freer rein for a broader range of \"questions\" while the truth teller is burdened with higher and higher standards of proof.</p>", "technique_name": "Demand unsurmountable proof"}, {"tid": "T0041", "descr": "<p>Without \"smoking gun\" proof (and even with proof), incident creator can or will deny involvement. This technique also leverages the attacker advantages outlined in T0040 \"Demand unsurmountable proof\", specifically the asymmetric disadvantage for truth-tellers in a \"firehose of misinformation\" environment.</p>", "technique_name": "Deny involvement"}, {"tid": "T0042", "descr": "<p>Wrap lies or altered context/facts around truths. </p>", "technique_name": "Kernel of Truth"}, {"tid": "T0046", "descr": "<p>Manipulate content engagement metrics (ie: Reddit &amp; Twitter) to influence/impact news search results (e.g. Google), also elevates RT &amp; Sputnik headline into Google news alert emails. aka \"Black-hat SEO\" </p>", "technique_name": "Search Engine Optimization"}, {"tid": "T0044", "descr": "<p>Incident creators often try a wide variety of messages in the early hours surrounding an incident or event in order to give a misleading account or impression. </p>", "technique_name": "Seed distortions"}, {"tid": "T0045", "descr": "<p>Use the fake experts that were set up in T0009. Pseudo-experts are disposable assets that often appear once and then disappear. Give \"credility\" to misinformation. Take advantage of credential bias</p>", "technique_name": "Use fake experts"}, {"tid": "T0043", "descr": "<p>Direct messaging via encypted app is an increasing method of delivery. These messages are often automated and new delivery and storage methods make them anonymous, viral, and ephemeral. This is a diffucult space to monitor, but also a difficult space to build acclaim or notoriety.</p>", "technique_name": "Use SMS/ WhatsApp/ Chat apps"}], "techniques_table_len": "8"}